Manage Surveys 
================

Once you have identified what data you need to collect, you can create survey questionnaires in FLOW and make these available on the field data collection devices. 

Survey management comprises the following activities:

-  Categorizing surveys into groups for easy identification.
-	Creating the surveys that belong to each group.
-	Creating the list of questions for each survey.
-	Approving and publishing surveys.
-	Assigning surveys to data collection devices. 
-	Tracking survey results through notifications. 

Within Admin Wizard, you can create surveys from the Manage Surveys page. Surveys are usually classified into Survey Groups, so that related surveys can be grouped together. 

The following diagram is an example of how surveys can be organized into groups.
 

Surveys can be on any topic, and can be simple or complex. Complex surveys can include multiple question types and dependency trees that allow the survey to adapt based on the answers to previous questions. Help tips and photos can be embedded into surveys to guide the enumerator when the survey is being used. Existing surveys can be copied and modified to reduce time spent in the creation process. Once created and approved, the surveys can be sent directly to FLOW phones or Web Forms.





Create Surveys
------------------

Before you create a survey, identify a Survey Group for it. If a relevant Survey Group already exists, you can create a new survey within it. If a relevant Survey Group does not exist, you must create a new one.

**To create a Survey Group**:

1.	On the FLOW Dashboard, click on the Data Managers tab. 
 
2.	In the Data Managers menu, select Admin Wizard. 
 
3.	In the Admin Wizard left pane, select Manage Surveys. 
 
4.	If a related Survey Group exists, it is listed on the page. Click on the Survey Group name to add a new survey within the group. If a related Survey Group does not exist, click Create Survey Group.
 
5.	Provide a Code (Name) and a description for the new Survey Group. Then click Save and Continue.
 
6.	The new survey appears in the Survey Groups list. Click on the survey group name to continue.
 
7.	Now you can create one or more surveys to be grouped under that survey group. Click Create Survey to add a new survey to that Survey Group.
 
8.	Provide a Name and a Description for the new survey and then click Save and Continue. 

Your survey is saved in the system. You can edit the details of the survey later, as described in Edit Survey Details. 
	
Edit Survey Details
-------------------

**To edit the details of a survey**:

1.	Locate the survey group for the survey you want to edit. In Admin Wizard, click Manage Surveys to see the list of survey groups. 

   *Note: This page allows you to edit survey group details, and not individual survey details. You can click the Edit button next to the survey group name if you want to edit the name and description of the survey group.*

2.	To see the list of surveys within a survey group, click on the survey group name.
  
3.	The surveys within the group are listed on the page. To edit details for a particular survey, click Edit next to the survey name.
 
4.	You can edit the following details:

   -	Name: A unique name for the survey.
   -	Description: A description that will help you identify the context of the survey.
   -	Point Type: The type or category of the location that is being surveyed.
   -  Version: The current version of the survey. 
   -  Language: The master language for the survey. 
   -	Requires Approval: If selected, the survey cannot be published unless approved by designated approvers. Leave blank if no approval is required.
   *Note: Survey ID is auto-generated.* 

5.	When you finish entering survey details, click Save and Continue. 
 

Manage Notifications
-----------------------

You can opt to have Raw Data Reports of a survey sent by email to selected people at specified time intervals, using the Notifications feature.  For example, a report can be sent at the end of each day, or at any time new data is entered or modified.

**To set up notifications**:

1.	Open the Details page of the survey for which you want to set up notifications. See Edit Survey Details for information on how to access survey details.	
2.	Click Manage Notifications.
 
3.	A dialog appears. Click Add.
 
4.	In the Edit Notification Subscriptions dialog that appears, you can specify subscription details.
 
5.	Enter the following details:

   -	Email: Enter the email address of the recipient. 
   -	Event: Select the type of event that should trigger this notification. Click on the   arrow next to the field to see the available options.
      -	Raw Data Report Generation - Sends a notification when a Raw Data Report is generated by a user.
      -	Field Status Report Generation - Sends a notification when a Field Status Report is generated by a user.
      -	Survey Submission – Sends a notification when a survey is submitted for approval.
      -	Survey approval - Sends a notification when a survey is approved.
   -	Type: Select the type of notification that should be sent. The report can be sent either as an attachment or a link in the email.
   -	Expires: Select an expiry date for the notification. The notification email will be sent at the specified intervals until this date. Click within the field to view a pop-up calendar where you can select a date.
6.	To continue adding recipients, click Add and repeat step 5. When all recipients have been added, click Save.  The notifications you set up are visible when you reopen the Manage Notifications dialog. 

Add Questions to a Survey
----------------------------

After the FLOW survey is created with all the required details filled in, you can add questions to the survey.

Each survey is organized into question groups which that appear as tabs on the FLOW mobile device or web form. These tabs appear in the question group order that you prescribe.  
 
*Note: Each survey group should contain a Question Group called General where basic information about the location and person being interviewed are recorded.*

Each question group can contain a list of questions. Questions can be of different types and can be configured to ensure clear responses that simplify result collation and analysis.

Question Types
------------------

Question types are listed here for reference.

Question type	Choose when…
Free Text	You want to ask an open ended question where the response will be entered into the phone or web form. For example, “What are your favorite colors?”. 
Option	You want to ask a question that has a fixed set of answers. For example, “Are there any current problems with the system?  Yes or No?” 
If you choose this question type, you are prompted to fill in the option answers to the question in Option Details. 
Enter an option answer in the text box, and then click Add Option to add additional answers. Use the green arrows to move options up and down in the order you want. Click Remove to delete an option.
Allow Multiple – Select the checkbox to enable the interviewee to choose multiple answers. 
Allow ‘Other’ - Select the checkbox to list ‘Other’ as a possible answer. If ‘Other’ is chosen by the interviewee, a text box will appear on the phone or web form as a prompt to provide more details.

*Note: Option questions are the only questions upon which dependencies can be built for surveys with dependency trees.*

Number	You want to ask a question that has a number for the answer. For example, “What year were you born?”
Geo	You want to take a GPS coordinate of a location. 
Note:  In almost all cases surveys should contain a GEO question. 
Photo	 You want to take a photo as part of the survey.
Video	You want to take a short video as part of the survey. 
Note: Videos should only be taken where cell data connection is very good. Videos can compromise the battery life and number of surveys that can be stored on a phone.
Strength	 You are asking a qualitative or subjective question, and you would like to record how strongly the interviewee feels about the subject. For example, “Are you happy with your latrine?” Yes or No?  Rate on a scale of 1-5. 

Date	You are asking a question that has a calendar date as the answer, in the format YEAR-MONTH-DAY (e.g. 2012-05-22). For example, “What was the date of your last committee meeting?”.
Barcode	You want to ask a question that prompts the enumerator to scan a barcode using an external barcode scanning application. 
 

**To create a question group**:

1.	Locate your survey from the list of surveys within the survey group. Click on the name of the survey.
 
2.	Click Create Question Group.
 
3.	Enter a Name and Description for the Question Group. The “Order” field is populated automatically once you start creating question groups. Then click Save and Continue.
 
4.	Add more question groups as required. When you are finished, you can start adding questions to each question group.

   *Tip: You can click on each element in the navigation bar to quickly navigate between pages.* 
 

**To add questions to a Question Group**:

1.	Within a survey, click on the name of the first Question Group. 
 
2.	Click Create Question.
 
3.	Enter the text of the question and other details. 
 
-	Question Types – Select the question type. For details, see the Question Types table. 
-	Order – This is automatically generated. You can reorder the questions later.
-	Tooltip – Enter help or advice text for the surveyor to guide them in collecting the data. 
-	Validation rules – Set the following validation rules to restrict input values.
   •	If your question type is Free Text, the Is Name checkbox appears. Select to ensure answers are names only. 
   •	If your question type is Number, additional options become available to define input values.
-	Minimum Value and Maximum Value – Specify minimum and maximum threshold values for the responses. On the data collection device, the user will be allowed to enter only numbers that fall within this range.
-	Allow Signs – Select the checkbox to allow the entry of signs such as + or – in the response.
-	Allow Decimals – Select the checkbox to allow the entry of decimal values in the response.
-	Metric – Select the data metric to apply to this question. Data metrics are defined in the Metric Manager within the Data Managers menu.
-	Collapse questions with same name – Select to hide duplicate questions.
-	Immutable – Select to ensure that this question cannot be edited or changed.
-	Mandatory – Select the checkbox to make the question mandatory. This ensures that the survey cannot be submitted unless the question is answered. Note: It is recommended to make all questions mandatory. 
-	Dependent – Select the checkbox to make this question appear only if there is a particular answer to an earlier question. If you select this checkbox, you are prompted to choose the question and response that this question will be dependent upon. 

   *Note: The yellow Back to Question List button takes you back to the list of questions without saving your changes. Navigate between questions using the appropriate green buttons to save your changes.*

4.	When you have completed all parts of the question, click Save and Continue. 

 
5.	Click Add Question Above to add more questions as required. Use the green arrows to move questions up and down to appear in the order you want.
6.	When you have finished adding questions to all questions groups, the survey is complete. Notify a FLOW administrator to make it available for assignment to the phones or as a web form.

Edit Translations
-------------------

FLOW supports data entry in multiple languages. You can translate your questions to any of the available languages. 

**To add translations of the questions and answers**:

1.	Open the question in the survey and click Edit Translation. 
 
2.	Enter the translations of the questions and answers under the appropriate language.

 
3. Click Save to save your translated text. These translated question and answer options will then be available to the enumerator when this survey is assigned to a FLOW device.

Edit Help Media
-----------------

You can upload helpful tips in a variety of formats for the enumerators to help them complete the survey effectively. These tips can be in different media, for example, photos, videos, text, or activities such as a nearby point locator.

**To add help media to a question**:

1.	Open the question in the survey and click Edit Help Media. 
 
2.	Click Add Help Item.
 
3.	From the Type drop-down list, select the type of media you want to show along with the question. Additional options appear depending on your choice.  
4.	If you selected Photo or Video, click Choose File to select a file from your computer and then click Upload. 

   *Note: Videos should only be taken where cell data connection is very good. Videos can compromise the battery life and number of surveys that can be stored on a phone.*

5.	If you selected Text, enter the help text in the textbox that appears.
6.	If you selected Activity, enter relevant text in the textbox and select an option in the Helper Activity drop-down list. Choices are nearbypoint and waterflowcalculator. The nearby point helper displays all previously surveyed points in the area, listed in the order of their proximity to the survey device. The enumerator can use it to collect data for a point that is already in the FLOW database, thus enabling reporting on the same point over time. The waterflow calculator helps an enumerator to calculate the water flow rate from a water access point while conducting a water point survey. 
7.	Click Save. The help media you selected is accessible to the enumerator from the survey screen on the phone when the user presses the   information icon next to the question.
 
Create a New Survey from an Existing Survey
-----------------------------------------------

You can copy an existing survey in the system and modify it to create a new survey.

**To copy a survey**:

1.	Locate the survey group for the survey you want to copy.
 
2.	Click on the name of the survey group. (Do not click Edit). 
3.	The list of surveys within that group appears. Click the Copy button next to the survey you want to copy.
 
4.	From the Destination Group drop-down list, select the survey group under which the new survey should appear. In the New Survey Name field, provide a new name for the copied survey.
 
5.	Click Copy. The copying process may take a few minutes, depending on the length of the survey. 
6.	When the process completes, a confirmatory "Copy Complete” message appears. Click OK.
7.	The new survey will now be available in the list of surveys for the selected survey group. It will contain all the dependencies present in the original survey that you copied, and you can now modify it as per your requirement.

Publish a Survey
--------------------

After a survey is created, a FLOW administrator must be notified to review and approve the survey. When approval is complete, the survey can be published. Only published surveys can be assigned to phones or web forms.

**To publish a survey**:

1.	Locate the survey from the survey groups list.
2.	Click on the name of the survey to display all the question groups in the survey. 
3.	Click Publish Survey. 
4.	To verify that the survey has been published, click the View Messages tab on the Dashboard.
	 
   You should see a message confirming that your survey has been published.

6.	You can now provide evaluation metrics for the questions in each question group, if required.
7.	When you have specified metrics for all the survey questions, click Create Assignment to assign the survey to selected field data collection devices.
